Author's note
In this essay, I present the results I found from reading multiple literatures in data science. I picked three articles that are representative of articles in the field of data science. By using them, I want to show some wrtiing conventions in writing for data science journal. I also discuss how this convention is useful for communicating and sharing knowledge. 

In the analysis, I look at three peer-review articles in the field of data science and more specifically, data science with a focus on analyzing human microbiome data. From these papers, I am able to discover similarities among them. To conclude, I would say all of them start with an introduction introducing the audience to the topic the authors are working on. Then, a new algorithm of analyzing data would be proposed and the articles would end up testing the algorithm on a case in real life. 

In the introduction of the paper, the author would usually start with a broader idea. They would be likely to talk about the general situatioin of the field and how people have done work in this field. They would also talk about what further contributions could be done on the field and proceed to their new discoveries. For example, in the introduction of one article, the author says, "A promising area of genomic research focuses on the sequencing and analysis of the genomes of microorganisms. Many human microbiome sequencing studies have been conducted to survey the bacterial composition in different body sites and investigate associations with various covariates (e.g. disease status)" (Tang, 2017). In here, the author starts from describing the genearal situation of the field of bioinformatics and then process to talking about analysis "Association analysis of the microbiome composition proves challenging for several reasons: the number of taxa is large relative to the sample size, the count data are sparse for many taxa with excessive zero observations, and total counts across taxa are constrained by the sequencing depth" (Tang, 2017). In addition, we can also see a general trend from another paper, "The microbiome is the microbe population living in and on the human body. The importance of microbiome in human health and disease has been increasingly recognized. Research in this area has begun to discover relationships between human microbiome and many complex diseases such as cancer, diabetes, psoriasis, and obesity" (Tang, 2016). In here, the author first talks about the general background about human health and diseases and then proceed the a more indepth topic, "Linking multivariate taxon counts to covariates of interest (as a special case, detecting differential abundance between groups) is the common practice in microbiome studies of human disease" (Tang, 2016).

In the methods section, the author would usually talk in mathamatical langauge and assume the audience to have a certain indepth knowledge in the field. In this paper, we can see that the author starts talking about details of the model he/she is proposing and more mathmatical defintions of that model is given, "Quasi-conditional association test to Two-part distribution-free association test" (Tang, 2017). In here, "Quasi-conditional association test" is a test studied in statistics for testing the correlation between samples and the "Two-part distribution-free assocation test" is the novel method proposed by the author. In another paper, the methods says, "Generalized Dirichlet model" (Tang, 2016). In here, the author describes the novelity of the work and descibes the new model that he/she proposes. As we can see, this section is quite different compared to the last section because people started to use terms not usually used in most people's life and strong domain knowledge is needed. 

After the methods section, the author would usually go talk about a real case study to demonstrate the usefulness of their methods. In one article the author talks about its application on analyzing human body microbiome data, "Gut microbiome and body mass index. all of our global tests produce significant results with Fisher-Q1P-value of 0.010, Simes-Q1P-value of 0.0028, and Simes-Q2P-value of 0.04" (Tang, 2017). We can see in here that the new method is applied on a real case study and the author presents the result in a succint way. This allows the audience to be confident about the the method the author just proposed and understand how it could be applied to real life which makes the method more valuable. Additionally, a similar trend is also seen in another essay, "microbiome in psoriasis. If the association is mainly driven by the differential abundance, the Wilcoxon test yields more significant results than the McNemar’s test; if the association is mainly driven by the differential proportion of the presence, then the McNemar’s test produces more significant results" (Tang, 2018). In here, we see that the author extensively discuesses the utility of the method and address the limit of it. It is important to let the audience know when the method would work.

I analyzed these texts and found the conventions are very important for communicatint within the field. First of all, there are many people in the field of data science and they communicate very often; however, they are also very isolated becasue reserachers are sparesely distrbited around the world. To let other people know their discoveries, they have to go to conferences or publish papers. In a famous data science journal, there will be many articles published. If a person wants to read a lot of them, it might be challenging if there are no conventions in the field. The person might need to explore each article by himself/herself without knowning the structure of the article. They might need to treat each article as an individual and read through the whole article. Becasue of each article often being ten to twenty pages, the amount of time spent on reading would be huge and the amount of time for doing research would be very little. Thus, I think the conventions of writing in this field largely advances the sharing of knowledge. It allows researchers to quickly glance through the essays and get what they want. In addition, it also provides a way to quickly compose one's new ideas or research findings in a publisheable media. And the rest of the community would be easy to see this new advancement. Moreover, people might be interested in compiling a number of research papers and a convention of writing would make it easy too. When I am searching for research articles, I usually just group a number of articles by the methods they use and the reality cases they can be applied to. In order to do that, I could just jump directly to the right sections that I am interested in, which saves me a lot of time. 

In my opinion, the conventions of the writing is highly related to the audience and the conventions are established in a basis that the writers clearly know what their audience's knowledge is. In a lot of articles that I have explored, the writers would always assume audiences having taken a certain number of professional courses. In the field of data science, the authors would assume readers to have taken linear algebra and computer science. The authors would insert a lot of professional terms in the articles without explainning them in depth. Thus, when I started to do data science research and read articles, I sometimes had to self-teach those courses. However, the benefit of this is the efficiency of the communication. If the authors keeps explaining professional terms that the readers might not know, the article could become very long and redundent. Nevertheless, an article published on journals aims at sharing knoweldge in the most efficeint way.

Zheng-Zheng Tang, Guanhua Chen, Alexander V. Alekseyenko, Hongzhe Li, “A general framework for association analysis of microbial communities on a taxonomic tree.” Bioinformatics, 2017, pp. 1278–1285, https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btw804
Zheng-Zheng Tang, Guanhua Chen, Alexander V. Alekseyenko, “PERMANOVA-S: association test for microbial community composition that accommodates confounders and multiple distances.” Bioinformatics, 2016, pp. 2618–2625, https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btw311
Zheng-Zheng Tang, "Zero-Inflated Generalized Dirichlet Multinomial Regression Model for Microbiome Compositional" Bioinformatics, 2018, pp. 178–185, https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btw861